
#### Summary from: ETSI GR NFV 001 V1.3.1 (2021-03)

#Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) - Use Cases

## NFV Technology Use Cases
 - Use Case #1: Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure as a Service (NFVIaaS)
 - Use Case #2: Virtual Network Function as a Service (VNFaaS)
 - Use Case #3: Virtual Network Platform as a Service (VNPaaS)
 - Use Case #4: VNF Forwarding Graphs
 - Use case #18 NS offered by multiple administrative domains
 - Use Case #14: VNF composition across multiple administrative domains
 - Use Case #17: Network Slicing

## Telco Network Use Cases
 - Use Case #5: Virtualisation of Mobile Core Network and IMS
 - Use Case #6: Virtualisation of Mobile base station
 - Use Case #7: Virtualisation of the Home Environmen
 - Use Case #8: Virtual Content Delivery Network (vCDN) - Fulfilment 
 - Use Case #9: Fixed Access Network Functions Virtualisation

## NFV Consumer use case
 - Use Case #10: Virtualisation of Internet of Things (IoT)

## General Services use cases in NFV networks
 - Use Case #16: Crypto as a Service (CaaS)
 - Use Case #15: Security as a Service (SecaaS)

## Use cases related to the operation of NFV networks
 - Use Case #11: Rapid Service Deployment
 - Use Case #12: Devops/CI/CD
 - Use Case #13: A/B testing

#### There a 3 entities or roles:
CSP - Cloud Service Provider. There are 2 parts to this: virtualized resource (compute, storage etc.) provider and Orchestration service provider. 2 seperate companies can provide these services or same company can provide both. According to spec there can be multiple virtualized resource provider but only one orchestration service provider.

CSC - Cloud Service Customer. These are the entities that buy infra from CSP and provide services to end users. Responsible for operation of a network services for cloud service users to consume. In the context of NFV, a cloud service customer might operate a VNF-based network service like Voice-over-LTE, IPTV or an evolved packet core that serves cloud service (a.k.a. end users). 

Users or Cloud Service Users: end users or edge devices that consume the services provided by CSCs. For example, a cloud service user utilizes their smartphone to consume services Voice-over-LTE offered by an NFV cloud service customer.


## Use Case #1: Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure as a Service (NFVIaaS)
Some literature also refers to a capability to offer network connectivity services as Network as a Service (NaaS), but no reference was found for a standardized definition of this term. One application for NaaS appears to be the on demand creation of network connectivity between CSPs and CSCs, though it may also refer to the on demand creation of network connectivity within data centres or between the computing nodes of a CSPs infrastructure
##### Specific example use case: Compute Service Instantiation. 
Meaning as a Compute Service User, I use the NFVIaaS to instantiate/delete a network accessible compute instance so that it is available for my use.
##### Specific example use case: Storage Service Instantiation. 
Meaning as a Storage Service User, I use the NFVIaaS to instantiate/delete a network accessible storage instance so that it is available for my use. 
##### Specific example use case: Network Service Instantiation. 
As a Network Service User, I use the NFVIaaS to instantiate/delete a network service between defined endpoints so that the service is available for my use. 
##### Problem description/Issues: 
The NFVIaaS model should permit a Service Provider to fulfil, assure and bill for services delivered to end users across 
NFVIs that are independently administered, and therefore requires accurate monitoring and reporting of status of NFVI resources allocated to the VNF instances of a particular Service Provider. The management and orchestration of VNF instances into a network service instance through a VNF Forwarding Graph should be possible when the VNF instance is running on the NFV Infrastructure of another service provider. Appropriate authentication and authorization mechanism will be required to support orchestration of VNF instances in these cases. The NFVI should provide mechanisms to restrict access such that only authorized VNF instances are permitted to execute on the NFVI. The NFVI should provide mechanisms such that VNF instances can only access the physical and virtual network terminations to which their access is authorized. Commercial NFVIaaS offers between Service Providers need to support both SLA measurement related parameters and failure notification and diagnostics.

## Use Case #2: Virtual Network Function as a Service (VNFaaS)
Using FaaS/SaaS model these advantages can be derived:
 - Modest software tool footprint for the enterprise to access the service 
 - Efficient use of software licenses 
 - Centralized management and data 
 - Savings in up-front costs 
 ##### Virtualization Target:
There are a number of Network Functions typically deployed today within enterprise networks as dedicated hardware infrastructure where it may, in the future, be appropriate for a Service Provider to deliver on a VNFaaS basis to the enterprise. These enterprise network functions include: 
 - AR - Enterprise Access Router/Enterprise CPE 
 - PE - Provider Edge Router 
 - FW - Enterprise Firewall 
 - NG-FW - Enterprise NG-FW 
 - WOC - Enterprise WAN optimization Controller  
 - DPI - Deep Packet Inspection (Appliance or a function) 
 - IPS - Intrusion Prevention System and other Security appliances
##### Problem description/Issues 
Abbr:
CPE - Customer Premises Equipment
PE - Provider Edge

It is estimated that a large number of Virtualised devices need to be supported at the edge, requiring enormous amount of resources from the NFVI. The vPE should be able to independently scale on the data plane and control plane to support very large forwarding tables and a very large number of flows. Compared with Virtualised Home solutions, virtualisation of the enterprise requires significantly lower number of VNFs, each with a much larger number of flows and performance requirements. 

To contain the cost and scale, a large number of virtualised devices need to be integrated on limited number of CPUs.  With the expected growths of enterprise bandwidth requirements, the required bandwidth per CPU may exceed today's  CPU capabilities. 

To achieve the performance targets, the virtual PE functions could: 
 - Be integrated in a single virtual machine 
 - Be split across a core set of functions and virtual network services functions

The vPE should be able to scale dynamically to support a very large forwarding table and a very large number of flows. 
To achieve the scaling, the vPE can be scaled, for example, by: 
 - Modifying infrastructure resources allocated to a vPE instance, e.g. increasing memory 
 - Creating additional instances of the vPE

In the Virtualised environment, the responsibility for ensuring proper behaviour of every scenario is in the hand of the VNFaaS Provider. The vE-CPE and vPE are required to support a large number of applications and services driven by the enterprise dynamics. In addition, there will be many topologies and network configurations during the migration from current to Virtualised networks.

Both the VNFaaS Provider and the user share the responsibility for managing the vPE and vE-CPE. Enterprise users expect to manage and configure their CPE devices and manage SW versions when upgrades happen, even when they are Virtualised and provided as a service.

VNFaaS is introducing a single-point of failure as operations internal to the enterprise that are dependent on the CPE, may not work properly upon loss of network connectivity. The challenge is to guarantee service continuity at the enterprise during network or access link failure (to match current network behaviour).

Should the vPE and vE-CPE be controlled by a centralized controller following the SDN architecture principles and standards, reliable connectivity between the controller and the virtual devices, regardless of their location is crucial.

The virtualised environment needs to guarantee complete isolation among users. Extending the enterprise LAN into the 
Service Provider network requires a VPN between the enterprise and the Service Provider virtual function. Special considerations are needed for protecting the enterprise data and configuration files.

Providing VNFaaS as a measured service requires usage measurement metrics and infrastructure appropriate to the type of VNF as well as appropriate Service Level Agreements. VNFaaS usage measurements would need the appropriately auditable accounting treatment to be used as the basis of service billing arrangements. 

## Use Case #3: Virtual Network Platform as a Service (VNPaaS)

## Use Case #4: VNF Forwarding Graphs
A Network Function (NF) Forwarding Graph defines the sequence of NFs that packets traverse. A simple Network Service can be implemented in an NFV environment using point to point links. VNF Forwarding Graph (VNFFG) are equivalent to connecting Physical Appliances via cables.

These abstract definitions of Network Services are a subject for further study, however, an 
abstract Network Service based on VNFs seems likely to include identification of the types of VNFs involved, the relationships between these VNFs and the interconnection (forwarding) topology along with related management and dependency relationships. Of course, a VNFFG can also interconnect with Physical Network Functions to provide a Network Service.

Benefits are vis-a-vis physical forwarding graph.

##### Virtualisation Target
The virtualisation target requires the following capabilities in support of a VNFFG: 
 - An information model that enables a Network Service Provider to describe to management and Orchestration entities the characteristics of nodes and links of a VNFFG in terms of capacity, performance, resiliency, constraints, security, required virtual compute/networking environment requirements and other parameters

 - An information model supplied by the VNF Provider that describes the NFVI resources needed to map an individual VNF instance (e.g. image running on a VM) to NFVI resources (e.g. virtual compute, storage and networking).

 - The Network Service Provider needs to be able to specify a mapping from the VNFFG that determines the selection and configuration of physical and/or virtual switching elements in the NFVI that are controlled via traditional and/or SDN methods.

 - An information model that allows a Network Service Provider to specify logical and physical interconnect points between the NFVI and Physical network functions, which may be interconnect points to other administrative domains (e.g. another operator) or VNFFG s, such that these can be implemented and managed by NFV management and orchestration. L1, L2 and/or L3 physical and/or virtualised L2/L3 networking environments.

 - The Network Service Provider needs to be able to identify the VNFFGs that are mapped to NFVI resources (e.g. compute domain nodes, hypervisor domain resources, infrastructure networking resources including physical links and physical network elements). 

##### Problem description/Issues
 - Specifying attributes of a VNFFG as supplied by a Network Service Provider such that the required overall performance, capacity, and resiliency is achieved. Measurement methods to validate that these are achieved  may be needed.

 - Specifying attributes supplied by a VNF provider such that each VNF's contribution to the overall 
performance, capacity and resiliency of the VNFFG is achieved. Measurement, testing, and/or alidation methods to validate that these are achieved may be needed.

 - VNFFG interconnection selection by the Network Service Provider from a broad set of networking alternatives such that acceptable efficiency results and that the requirement networking capacity, performance and resiliency is achieved. 

 - Network Service Providers need to support end-end services that cross administrative boundaries, hence aspects involving multiple administrative domains in terms of operation, interworking, and migration to/from physical network function implementations need to be further described.

 - The abstract end-end network service will require further definition of additional relationships between the VNFs that comprise the service. The definition of the service and the identification of the categories of relationships need further study to facilitate service creation using VNFs by cooperating Network Service Providers. 

 - Resources need to be assigned to implement the "nodes" and "links" of a VNFFG initially in response to an operator provisioning request. The assignment of resources that implement "nodes" and "links". May need to be modified in response to load changes and/or a catastrophic failure in the event that other mechanisms do not adjust capacity or restore the forwarding graph resources.

## Use Case #5: Virtualisation of Mobile Core Network and IMS
## Use Case #6: Virtualisation of Mobile base station
## Use Case #7: Virtualisation of the Home Environmen
## Use Case #8: Virtual Content Delivery Network (vCDN) - Fulfilment 
## Use Case #9: Fixed Access Network Functions Virtualisation
## Use Case #10: Virtualisation of Internet of Things (IoT)
Leveraging NFV to implement IoT requires NFV platforms, NFV applications, analytics, security and integration with operational support systems and business support systems.  Different IoT use case scenarios may require different combinations of these network functions and resources:
 - Control: control interface and a status dashboard to human 
operators monitoring surveillance and security information, operating remote machinery etc. Example control of drones.
 - Connectivity:  network operator's interface to the providers and the users of IoT. Purposes such as management of user subscriptions, registration and configuration of devices, management of device software and upgrades, generation of billing information, etc.
 - Applications: IoT features together with auth, session management
 - Authentication:  authentication of connected devices, users, and the authorization of services.
 - Analytics Engine
 - Gateway: This function provides backhaul access to control and use a group of devices to which it may be connected, e.g. through a local (e.g. capillary) network.
 - vCPE: This function provides a virtual network representation of CPE devices such as sensors or actuators.
 - Storage

##### Virtualisation target 
All traditional network functions used for providing Internet of Things (e.g. connectivity, authentication, storage, gateway) are candidates for virtualisation. Functions that provide access and control interfaces to IoT devices are particularly well suited for virtualisation, and some have critical dependence on the high grade of service that NFV technologies can provide.

##### Problem description/Issues
 - Different end-users and CSCs may need to access the same resources (e.g. storage, sensor arrays), at times simultaneously. 
 - Data Sovereignty regulations impose restrictions such as prohibiting scale-out of resources to infrastructure domains located in other legal jurisdictions. 
 - In the case of mobile data sources, Data Sovereignty regulations may require dynamic control/adjustment of  data transport routes to ensure the restriction of passage within approved jurisdictions. 
 - Massive Internet of Things implies simultaneous access and data transmission spread out over vast geographic areas, possibly spanning different NSP and CSP domains. 
 - The demand for the services, which may entail huge traffic magnitudes and geographies spanning multiple domains, can be sudden and without prior indication.

## Use Case #11: Rapid Service Deployment
## Use Case #12: Devops/CI/CD
## Use Case #13: A/B testing
## Use Case #14: VNF composition across multiple administrative domains
## Use Case #15: Security as a Service (SecaaS)
## Use Case #16: Crypto as a Service (CaaS)
## Use Case #17: Network Slicing
## Use case #18 NS offered by multiple administrative domains